Mohammad Aazam, Marc St-Hilaire, Chung-Horng Lung, Ioannis Lambadaris (2016) [1] provides the idea of sensors-based waste
bins, capable of notifying waste level status. An automatic waste bin and make use of cloud computing paradigm to evolve a more
robust and effective smart waste management mechanism. Waste management is linked to different stakeholders, including
recyclers, importers and exporters, food industry, healthcare, research, environment protection and related organizations, and
tourism industry Mohammad Aazam et al proposed Cloud SWAM, in which each bin is equipped with sensors to notify its waste
level. Different bins for each category of waste, namely: organic, plastic/paper/bottle, and metal. In this way, each type of waste is
already separated and through the status, it is known that how much of waste is collected and of what type. The availability of data
stored in the cloud can be useful for different entities and stakeholders in different ways. Analysis and planning can start from as
soon as waste starts gathering and up to when recycling and import/export related matters are conducted. The system Cloud SWAM
provides Timely waste collection. Timely and efficient way of collecting waste leads to better health, hygiene, and disposal. The
system provides shortest path to the location of waste bins. So the collectors can plan a better and fuel efficient route. Recycling and
disposal by the system s uses separate smart bins for each type of waste. So the stakeholders will be able to see through the cloud
and analyze type of waste and its magnitude. So they can do better arrangements and efficient ways of recycling can be adopted in a
dynamic way. Resource management by Cloud SWAM is based on the waste generation trends of a particular city and/or area,
resources can be effectively managed since the data is available live through the cloud. Food industry planning can done through the
Cloud SWAM. Food industry can plan according to the trends of a certain locality. In this way, not only waste material can be
minimized, but also, food trends and habits of an area can be coped in a much more operative way. Taxation With CloudSWAM
keeping track of each kind of waste, better taxation and fine imposition can be performed on unnecessary waste generation. Big
Data practices can be used to reduce waste generation and improve its management. Various healthcare stakeholders can take
benefit from the gathered waste management data and foresee what type of diseases a particular locality is more prone to and how to
prevent from certain types of insects and bugs from breeding. Waste-based energy production means generating energy from waste
in the form of electricity or heat.
International Journal for Research in Applied Science & Engineering Technology (IJRASET)

The population rate of the developing nations increases and a proper management of accumulative Municipal Solid Leftover (MSL)
grows to be alarmingly increasing for building and maintaining an eco-friendly hazardless space. Dr. N. Sathish Kumar, B.
Vijayalakshmi, R. Jenifer Prarthana, A .Shankar (2016) [2] uses tremendous power of RFID technology and presents the
development of an electronic monitoring (e-monitoring) system to overcome the problems in the conventional approach. The emonitoring system is an embedded system that comprises of RFID technology interfaced with Arduino micro-controller and a web
base which is completely computerized. . Dr. N. Sathish Kumar et al. designed a smart dustbin in which the dust bin gets blocked
when it reaches a threshold value. The ultrasonic sensor measures the waste volume .microcontroller reads the data from sensor and
alerts the server. For the verification process RFID tag (ID card of the cleaner) interrupts the RFID reader, the ultrasonic sensor
checks the status of the dustbin and sends it to the web server. An android application is used to view the alerts and status at the
server end.

RFID technologies do not need line of sight and the RFID waste tag can be read without actually seeing it. An RFID-based waste
management system proposed by Belal Chowdhury and Morshed U. Chowdhury (2007) [3] mainly consists of a smart waste (RFID)
tag, a Reader and a waste management IT system (i.e., WMITS). A load cell is used to record the weight of bulk waste from each
waste bin. A reader device attached to the PDA (Personal Digital Assistant) or a smart phone placed in waste collector vehicle
(garbage/recycling truck) enables the chip to transmit its unique identification to the reader device, allowing the bin to be remotely
identified. A RFID reader on each waste collector vehicle will ensure that the weight and identity of the waste is passed to the PDA
and automatically logged into an integrated database server. The RFID reader can also request any additional information from the
waste tag that is encoded on it. When robotic/lifting arms in the waste collector loaded onto the vehicle then the weighting measures
the weight of each bin. The bin ID is then used to calculate actual waste disposal charges for each individual household.
Belal Chowdhury and Morshed U. Chowdhury [3] designed a five layer architecture for RFID and sensor based waste management
system. The layers are named as physical layer, middleware layer, process layer, data access layer and user interface layer. The
physical layer consists of the actual RFID hardware components and it include RFID waste tag, reader and antennas. Middleware
layer is act as the interface between the RFID reader, load cell sensor and waste management service providers (i.e., waste collectors,
and municipalities) IT system. The important element of RFID and load cell sensor systems is middleware layer , which is viewed
as the central nervous system from the waste management system perspective. This layer enables waste management service
provider’s (e.g., waste collector) a quick connectivity with RFID readers and load cell sensors and also the layer lowers the volume
of information that waste management system applications need to process, by grouping and filtering raw RFID and load cell data
from readers and sensors respectively. An application-level interface is provided by middleware layer for managing RFID readers,
and load cell sensors for processing large volumes of waste data for their applications. The middleware layer is responsible for
monitoring physical layer components. The Process Layer provides RFID and sensor based waste management system (business)
processes that provide real-time integration into their existing systems. Also this layer enables data mapping, formatting, business
rule execution and service interactions with databases. The data access layer is consist of a RDBMS (Relational Database
Management System) and applications that allow waste management service providers to create an RFID and sensor “events”. This
data access layer interacts with the SQL server and includes a data query/loading approach using SQL and customized data (i.e.,
customer/household information) that are presented to the waste management service provider (i.e., waste collector) for fast and
accurate waste (e.g., garbage, recycling, and green) identification Finally, the user interface layer is composed of an extensible GUI
(graphical user interface), which allows RFID devices (e.g., waste tag, reader) and load cell sensors in a uniform, user-friendly way
to work seamlessly in a Windows environment.

Mohd Helmy Abd Wahab, Aeslina Abdul Kadir, Mohd Razali Tomari and Mohamad Hairol Jabbar (2014) [4] proposed a Smart
Recycle Bin that caters for recycling glass, paper, aluminum can and plastic products. It automatically evaluates the value of the
wastes thrown accordingly and provide 3R card. The recycle system enables collection of points for performing a disposal activity
into designated recycle bins. Such system encourages recycling activities by allowing the points to be redeemable for products or
services. The system records the data related to the disposal activities, disposed material, identification of the user and points
collected by the user. The user has to touch his card to the specified RFID reader at the recycle bin. Recycle bin doors open and user
puts waste one by one. A microcontroller processes information about his user ID and number of wastes and send to a database
server. The data base server calculates the user points and updates it. The system provides user login to an online system to check
his total points.
Fachmin F olianto, Yong Sheng Low and Wai Leong Yeow (2015) [5] proposed Smart bin system has 3 –tier architecture.The
ultra sound sensor installed in every Smartbin senses bin fullness and report readings and sensor statuses. The sensor reading is
transmitted to the gateway nod which is installed in every sensor cluster. It forwards the information to the backend server. The
International Journal for Research in Applied Science & Engineering Technology (IJRASET)
 
